README.md, before:

Ballistics Tweaks
===================

A mod for Survivalist: Invisible Strain.

By default, non-aimed shots will diverge from the aimpoint in a pattern
that is thicker at the edges and thinner in the center. The angular
pattern width changes from 10 degrees for a maximally unaimed shot to 0
degrees for an aimed shot.

The same distribution applies to shotgun pellet spread, with a fixed 5
degree spread, making these weapons dubiously effective at any
significant range.

This mod changes the distribution of all ranged weapon spread to be
closer to a normal distribution, scaled such that around 95% of the
shots are within the requested spread. This should dramatically increase
the lethality of all ranged weapons beyond their optimal range, as well
as the lethality of shotguns at any range.

This is technically accomplished by rescaling a Bates distribution
(average of 5 uniform random samples), which avoids trigonometry while
providing a "good enough" approximation for gameplay. As a side effect,
all raycasts are restricted to about 1.6 times the requested spread,
eliminating the need to worry about pathological effects like pellets
going backwards ever happening.


Requirements
------------

* Unity Mod Manager installed into Survivalist: Invisible Strain.

Build
-----

1. Checkout to `dev/BallisticsTweaks`.
2. From the `dev/BallisticsTweaks/src` directory, run `dotnet build`.
3. Copy `dev/BallisticsTweaks/src/bin/Debug/net40/BallisticsTweaks.dll` 
   and `dev/BallisticsTweaks/Info.json` to `Mods/BallisticsTweaks`.

License
-------

I claim nothing. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Commit message:

BallisticsTweaks: fix shot distribution, tweak spread and inaccuracy
Math is hard.

Also, default shotgun spread and inaccuracy angles were pretty large
and have been toned down a bit.

README.md, after:

Ballistics Tweaks
===================

A mod for Survivalist: Invisible Strain.

By default, non-aimed shots will diverge from the aimpoint in a pattern
that is thicker at the edges and thinner in the center, such that the
result is distributed uniformly within a unit circle. The angular 
pattern width changes from 10 degrees for a maximally unaimed shot to 0
degrees for an aimed shot.

The same distribution applies to shotgun pellet spread, with a fixed 5
degree spread, making these weapons dubiously effective at any
significant range.

This mod changes the distribution of all ranged weapon spread to be
closer to a normal distribution, scaled such that around 99% of the
shots are within the requested spread. This should somewhat increase
the overall lethality of all ranged weapons beyond their optimal range,
as well as the lethality of shotguns at any range.

This is technically accomplished with the help of rescaling a Bates 
distribution (average of 5 uniform random samples), which avoids 
trigonometry while providing a "good enough" approximation for gameplay.
The radial deflection angle should be Rayleigh distributed to achieve a
bivariate normal distribution, which we accomplish by taking the 
Euclidean norm of two random variates.

We also tweak the shotgun spread to bring it closer in line with
real-world numbers, as well as the maximum inaccuracy angle. Untrained
or impatient characters will still tend to miss their targets most of 
the time, but less egregiously than under vanilla settings.

Requirements
------------

* Unity Mod Manager installed into Survivalist: Invisible Strain.

Build
-----

1. Checkout to `dev/BallisticsTweaks`.
2. From the `dev/BallisticsTweaks/src` directory, run `dotnet build`.
3. Copy `dev/BallisticsTweaks/src/bin/Debug/net40/BallisticsTweaks.dll` 
   and `dev/BallisticsTweaks/Info.json` to `Mods/BallisticsTweaks`.

License
-------

I claim nothing. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
